Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we are going to work on being able to view an existing post from within our Web app,
let's jump right into it.
So in our previous lesson, we set up the ability to click on this create post button, and we were
able to successfully submit a user's input as a new document into our database.
Well, now the question becomes, how can we view that existing post from within our website, right
from within a U.
RL for that post?
Well, before we worry about the exact You URL that an individual post should have, let's first worry
about the HTML template that an individual posts screen should have.
For example, it should look something like this.
So let's get started by adding a new SJS template in our project for this template.
We're not going to type this HTML out.
Let's just copy and paste it.
As always, you can jump to the repository and look inside complex app and then HTML templates.
And in this case we are interested in the template that is named post HTML.
So open that up.
And then click on Raw.
Let's copy everything here into our clipboard, so select it all copy, OK, back in your text editor,
let's add a new file within our views folder.
So if I right click on Views new file.
Let's name this single dash post dash screen SJS.
OK, in the new file, go ahead and paste in your clipboard up at the very top.
Let's be sure to delete what should instead be our shared header include.
So I'm going to begin selecting from line number one down until the closing header tag in this comment
that says header ends here.
Let's delete all of that and then we can just say less than percentage Dasch include and then file path
of includes header.
Let's close this out.
Percentage greater than OK then let's copy that into our clipboard and do the same thing for the footer.
So copy this.
Include Command.
Scroll down until you find this comment.
Footer begins and then select that and select all the way down to the bottom and delete paste in your
clipboard and just change header to footer.
OK, let's go ahead and save this template and now back in your browser, let's imagine that if someone
visited a Eurail that looked like this, so localhost Colgan three thousand slash post and then slash
and then this last segment, you could imagine this would be the exact post that they want to see.
So maybe they want to see post ABC.
Maybe they want to see post X, Y, Z or post one, two, three.
The idea is that it's slash post and then slash the post they're looking for.
OK, but with this general selected pattern here in mind, let's jump into our router.
So within the root of our project, jump into router J.S..
Under this comment where it says posts related roots, let's add a new line and let's say rude or not,
get give it a string of text and let's say slash post slash and then we can say Colen and then we can
make up any name we want.
But let's say I said the idea is that there's colon and then the name part is now flexible.
This will represent whatever the user includes.
After the post slash, we will circle back how to use this a bit later on in the lesson.
For now, let's move on and let's give this a second argument.
This should be the function that we want to run in response to this incoming request.
So we'd want to look inside our post controller and we haven't created this function yet.
But you can imagine that in about ten seconds we're going to start creating it, let's say post controller,
dot view, single notice that for this route I did not bother calling user controller must be logged
in.
This is because I do want the general public to be able to view a single post.
The idea behind this application that we're building is almost similar to a blogging platform.
Right.
So by default, any posts you create are viewable to the public.
OK, let's go ahead and save this and then let's jump into our post controller and create a function
with this matching name in our controller folder.
Jump into post controller down at the very bottom, let's create a new function.
So exports dot view single.
Let's set that to equal a function within these function parentheses.
Let's be sure to include request and response, OK?
And within the body of this function, let's just render that new Ajay's template we just created.
So response dot render the name of the template was a single dash post dash screen.
Let's go ahead and save this and then test it out.
So back in the browser you can click back to the home page if you want and up in the address bar let's
type in.
So localhost column three thousand slash post slash and then you could just make up anything.
Just hit a few random keys.
Woops, looks like we're pulling in HTML successfully, but clearly we are missing a bit of success
or styling, I think I know exactly what the problem is.
So back in our text editor within your Views folder, dig into the sub folder that's named includes
and we want to open up header SJS.
All we need to do is on line number 11 for the HSF value for the stylesheet.
We just need to add a forward slash right at the beginning like this.
You might remember we already did this once, but then when we set up this reusable header include file,
clearly we copied and pasted from a file where we had not made this change.
So as soon as you have the forward slash right before the M and Main here, just go ahead and save.
And now if we refresh back in the browser, we are in business now.
Obviously, all of this is fake or hardcoded content and data.
Right?
This is just a static HTML template that we copied and pasted.
So our goal is to pull in a real existing post from the database and then show its title here.
It's created on or posted on date here as well as its body content.
So in order to look up a post in our database, this is where our You URL structure comes into play.
Let's set things up so that this last segment of the You are rel is the idea of the post that should
be loaded.
This is similar to how when you view an individual tweet on Twitter or open Instagram and your Web browser
and view a post, either way you'll see a random string of characters in the euro that represents that
specific post.
So with that in mind, let's jump back into our post controller and work on the function that will be
called for a route like this.